# MISS
Minimal Information about Slides and Scans

High quality metadata and provenance information are essential assets to achieve the desired product quality in almost all areas of digital pathology. Especially when datasets are used in computational pathology, we need the appropriate information to document the technical and medical validation process and to support future regulatory approvals. There are several standards available covering dedicated parts, e.g. MIABIS for sample and donor metadata and DICOM or vendor specific attributes for file formats and scanning metadata. Our aim is not to propose yet another metadata standard, but to describe a small and minimal data set across different standardization activities  and initiate a community driven approach for collecting and harmonizing existing ontologies.
Materials and Methods: MISS was defined within the use cases of a large scale digitization effort for machine learning. Through several cycles with stakeholders from biobanking and machine learning we generated a first proposal.  
Results: A minimal set of metadata for glass slides and scanned representation divided into three main parts: Pre Scanning (Slide) Metadata: e.g. metadata from biobanks, glass slide labeling, cleaning;  Scanning Metadata: e.g. technical parameters, resolutions and focus points  and Post-Scanning (File) Metadata: e.g. image quality indicators.  A first version of MISS and examples  can be found at https://github.com/human-centered-ai-lab/MISS/wiki.
Conclusions: We invite the digital pathology community to comment and contribute to the Minimal Information about Slides and Scans on the MISS wiki page and to provide examples of their use in specific application scenarios.

